v6.1 Changelog (#5234)
mattermost/docs: source/install/self-managed-changelog.md

 - A composite index has been added to the jobs table for better query performance. For some customers with large jobs table, this can take a long time, so we recommend adding the index during off-hours, and then running the migration.
   - For PostgreSQL: ``create index concurrently idx_jobs_status_type on jobs (status,type);``
   - For MySQL: ``create index idx_jobs_status_type on Jobs (Status,Type);``

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.0, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Timed Do Not Disturb
 - Added the ability to disable all notifications for a specified period of time to avoid distractions, without losing important messages when you're back.

#### Cross-team Recent Mentions

>  - Recent mentions and saved posts now show across all teams.

Reviewer: Searches as well, correct, given the changes to POST /api/v4/posts/search documented later on this page?

Author: @larkox Can you help confirm?

Reviewer 2: Searches are limited to the current team by the user agent (webapp/mobile). There are plans to include that in the future, but not yet.

Reviewer 2: cc @esethna

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Added one-click reactions for posts. A user's three most recently used emojis display when the user hovers over a message.
 - Added support for selecting names and aliases in the emoji picker.
 - Changed the user interface of the edit-indicator of posts and moved it inline.
 - The updated "Tips & Next Steps" screen is now shown to all System Admins.

>  - Once the user has selected **Start Trial**, they will see a modal that lists all of the features now available to them through the Enterprise plan.

Reviewer 3: Propose moving these under "Administration" or "Enterprise Edition"
```
 - Once the user has selected **Start Trial**, they will see a modal that lists all of the features now available to them through the Enterprise plan.
 - Once a non-licensed server has reached 10 users, a modal is displayed to System Admins encouraging them to start a 30-day trial.
```

>  - Once a non-licensed server has reached 10 users, a modal is displayed to the admin encouraging them to start a 30-day trial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Once a non-licensed server has reached 10 users, a modal is displayed to System Admins encouraging them to start a 30-day trial.
```

 - Added ``@here`` mention to the ``EnableConfirmNotificationsToChannel`` config setting to show a warning modal when over 5 members might be alerted with ``@here``.

#### Integrations
 - Added support for multi-select on Apps slash commands.
 - App commands now make a distinction between the central channel and the right-hand side channel.
 - App bindings now recognize the post menu options for each channel they live in.
 - Added new ``registerMessageWillBeUpdatedHook(newPost, oldPost)`` client-side plugin hook to intercept edited messages.

#### Performance
 - Slightly improved performance around rendering of system messages.
 - Reduced storage-related slow-downs on page load.

#### Administration
 - Bulk imports with attached files now log and continue when a file fails to upload instead of halting.
 - ``get flagged posts`` endpoint will now return only flagged posts for channels the user is a member of.
 - Updated Bleve to v2 to use the scorch index type.
 - Minimum supported browser versions changes:
   - Chrome updated from ``61+`` to ``89+``.
   - Firefox updated from ``60+`` to ``78+``.
   - MacOS updated from ``10.9+`` to ``10.14+``.

>  - Prometheus metrics are now enabled when running a standalone jobserver.

Reviewer 3: I think this applies to Enterprise Edition only? (Enterprise plan)

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed a broken link to the **Custom Emoji** page on servers with a subpath configured.
 - Fixed an issue where a "No results found" error string was displayed in the **Direct Messages** modal.
 - Fixed an issue where the caret was placed in the middle of the emojis when picking two emojis from the emoji picker.
 - Fixed an issue where **System Console > Channels > Channel Management** displayed an option to toggle group management in Team Edition, Starter, and Professional.
 - Fixed an issue where the channel switcher was missing the "(You)" indicator on the user's own Direct Message channel.
 - Fixed an issue where the clock format set by the user was not respected on the edit indicator popover.
 - Replaced Metropolis font files with a new set to correct a kerning issue.

>  - Fixed an issue where deep links opened on mobile displayed an incorrect text directing users to open the Desktop app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where deep links opened on mobile displayed an incorrect message directing users to open the Desktop app.
```

 - Addressed various user interface style bugs from v6.0 release.
 - Fixed emails templates for clients that do not support the ``style`` tag.

>  - Fixed an issue where the scrollbar was hardly visible with Denim & Sapphire Themes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where the scrollbar was hardly visible with Denim & Sapphire themes.
```

 - Fixed an issue where creating a bot with an invalid username returned an "invalid email" error.
 - Fixed an issue where using ``/code`` did not render initial whitespace characters.
 - Fixed an issue where **Try Enterprise for Free** option was missing spacing in mobile webview.
 - Fixed an issue where the SQLStore cache was relied on when populating the WebConn channel memberships.
 - Fixed an issue where logging was not re-configured when the server config was changed via the System Console.

>  - Fixed an issue with an indigo theme glitch when returning from Playbooks to Channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed a display issue with the Indigo theme when returning from Playbooks to Channels.
```

 - Fixed an issue where the offline indicator color did not use the correct theme color.
 - Fixed various bugs for the Collapsed Reply Threads (Beta) feature, including:
    - Fixed an issue where the recent sidebar sorting option didn't only consider parent posts.
    - Fixed an issue where a badge was displayed on a thread list when the thread was started by another user in a Direct Message.

>     - Fixed an issue where the user avatar was displayed in the participants list after their post was deleted and if they had no other posts in the thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fixed an issue where the user avatar was displayed in the participants list after their post was deleted when the user had no other posts in the thread.
```

    - Fixed an issue where the ephemeral message was not displyaed as the centre post.

>     - Fixed an issue with dragging and dropping files on a thread while on a Threads panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fixed an issue with dragging and dropping files on a thread while on the Threads panel.
```

    - Fixed an issue where permalinks were not highlighting a post on a thread that was already open on the right-hand side.

>     - Fixed an issue with missing threads in the Thread list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fixed an issue with missing threads in the Threads list.
```

   
### config.json
Multiple setting options were added to ``config.json``. Below is a list of the additions and their default values on install. The settings can be modified in ``config.json``, or the System Console when available.

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:
 - Under ``ServiceSettings`` in ``config.json``:
   - Added ``EnableInlineLatex`` to add support for inline Latex rendering.
 - Under ``JobSettings`` in ``config.json``

>    - Added ``CleanupJobsThresholdDays``. This defines the time gap in hours beyond which older jobs will be removed. Default is -1 which means the feature is disabled. Setting to 0 will clean all completed jobs.

Reviewer 4: time gap in "days"

 - ``Ctrl/Cmd+Shift+A`` shortcut does not open **Account Settings** [MM-38236](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-38236).
 - Close button on invite people page is incorrectly themed [MM-37852](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-37852).
 - Known issues related to the Collapsed Reply Threads (Beta) are [listed here](https://docs.mattermost.com/messaging/organizing-conversations.html#known-issues).
 - Adding an at-mention at the start of a post draft and pressing the leftwards or rightwards arrow can clear the post draft and the undo history [MM-33823](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-33823).
 - Google login fails on the Classic mobile apps.
 - Status may sometimes get stuck as **Away** or **Offline** in High Availability mode with IP Hash turned off.
 - Searching stop words in quotation marks with Elasticsearch enabled returns more than just the searched terms.
 - The team sidebar on the desktop app does not update when channels have been read on mobile.
 - Slack import through the CLI fails if email notifications are enabled.
 - Push notifications don't always clear on iOS when running Mattermost in High Availability mode.

> ### Contributors

Author: @puerco The below list of contributors also includes a list of translators that Carrie generated from Weblate. Carrie was also able to identify the URLs to most of the translators's Weblate profiles', except a few of them which you can see in this preview https://github.com/mattermost/docs/blob/126e2d409e8cc78aee86e0e3105770a2a851eaf5/source/install/self-managed-changelog.md#contributors.

Do you have admin-level access in Weblate to find the missing profile links? Please DM me for any questions.

Reviewer 5: I think I can complete the list by getting the GitHub logins from weblate. Do you want me to push a commit to your branch?

Author: @puerco I think that should be fine, thank you

Reviewer 5: Ready @amyblais I've managed to complete all links except one:  Erik Pfeiffer

#### Integrations
 - Added support for multi-select on Apps slash commands.
 - App commands now make a distinction between the central channel and the right-hand side channel.
 - App bindings now recognize the post menu options for each channel they live in.
 - Added new ``registerMessageWillBeUpdatedHook(newPost, oldPost)`` client-side plugin hook to intercept edited messages.

#### Performance
 - Improved performance around rendering of system messages.
 - Reduced storage-related slow-downs on page load.

#### Administration
 - Bulk imports with attached files now log and continue when a file fails to upload instead of halting.
 - ``get flagged posts`` endpoint will now return only flagged posts for channels the user is a member of.
 - Updated Bleve to v2 to use the scorch index type.
 - Minimum supported browser versions changes:
   - Chrome updated from ``61+`` to ``89+``.
   - Firefox updated from ``60+`` to ``78+``.
   - MacOS updated from ``10.9+`` to ``10.14+``.

#### Enterprise Edition
 - Once the user has selected **Start Trial**, they will see a modal that lists all of the features now available to them through the Enterprise plan.

>  - Once a non-licensed server has reached 10 users, a modal is displayed to System Admins encouraging them to start a 30-day trial.

Reviewer 6: Already here: https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/5234/files#diff-eba248b2c1a66750343693c8d84e6909fc3c26f299880afcc7261837a0465323R49

>  - Once a non-licensed server has reached 10 users, a modal is displayed to System Admins encouraging them to start a 30-day trial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Once a non-licensed server has reached 10 users, a one-time modal is displayed to System Admins encouraging them to start a 30-day trial.
```
